# Research Assistant 
## _Northern Arizona University_

My research at NAU solely focused on Nanoscience, and the goal was to be able to control the propulsion of Janus particles, which are microparticles, through various means. This type of research would greatly enhance forward thinking into practical uses such as a drug deliver system within the body. I first worked as an undergraduate under my mentor, Dr. Gibbs, at NAU in his lab before I was pulled in as a graduate. 

## The Self-Assembly of Active Magnetic Micro- and Nano-structures
**Description:** 
The first study had to do with learning how to control the direction of the microparticles through the use of magnetic fields, generated by copper coils. And then have them self-assembly. It was a difficult task since these microparticles were swimming in water and hydrogen peroxide (reactive agent) and there were problems such as the liquid solution vaporating too quickly or the particles weren't correctly made. We got to work around some of the issues like being able to see them under a Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) with the help of Energy Dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy. But trying to accurately pinpoint the speeds of these particles was a challenge that couldn't quite be solved, so some rounding had to be used. We used a camera and ImageJ to track the particles and then plugged the numbers into a spread sheet. There were some conversions between pixels to meters, and such. This research was based off of another project from another university, but we were able to find similarities between the two experiments, but we concluded that it wasn't the best delivery system.

## Shape-Dependent Motion of Structured Photoactive Microswimmers
**Description:**
The study continued nonetheless. This time we focused on the geometery of the microparticles and this time used UV light as a reactive agent. It was more promising and potentially a safer delivery system than previous experiement. The end result actually was published through the Applied Materials & Interfaces journal.

[Shape-Dependent Motion of Structured Photoactive Microswimmers](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acsami.8b01940)

**Abstract:**
We investigate the dynamics of structured photoactive microswimmers and show that morphology sensitively determines the swimming behavior. Particular to this study, a major portion of the light-activated particles’ underlying structure is built from a photocatalytic material, made possible by dynamic physical vapor deposition (DPVD). We find that swimmers of this type exhibit unique shape-dependent autonomous swimming that is distinct from what is seem in systems with similar structural morphology but not fabricated directly from the catalyst. Notably, the direction of motion is a function of these parameters. Because the swimming behavior is strongly correlated with particle shape and material composition, DPVD allows for engineering small-scale propulsion by adjusting the fabrication parameters to match the desired performance.
